1. What is EDA and why is it important?
EDA (Exploratory Data Analysis) is the process of analyzing datasets to summarize their main characteristics using statistics and visualizations. It helps in:

Understanding the data structure and distribution

Detecting missing values and outliers

Finding patterns, relationships, and anomalies

Guiding feature selection and model building
Think of it as the foundation before any modeling or predictions.

2. Which plots do you use to check correlation?
To check correlation between numerical features, I use:

Heatmap: Shows pairwise correlation coefficients using colors.

Pairplot: Displays scatterplots and histograms to visualize relationships.

Scatterplot: For direct observation of trends between two variables.

3. How do you handle skewed data?
Skewed data can be handled by:

Log Transformation (e.g., np.log1p()): Reduces right skew.

Box-Cox or Yeo-Johnson Transformation: Makes data more normal-like.

Outlier Treatment: Removing or capping extreme values (e.g., IQR method).

Scaling: Sometimes normalization or standardization helps reduce skew effect in modeling.

4. How to detect multicollinearity?
Multicollinearity means high correlation between independent variables. It can be detected using:

Correlation Matrix: Check for variables with correlation > 0.8 or < -0.8.

Variance Inflation Factor (VIF): VIF > 5 or 10 indicates multicollinearity.

python
Copy
Edit
from statsmodels.stats.outliers_influence import variance_inflation_factor
5. What are univariate, bivariate, and multivariate analyses?
Univariate Analysis: Analysis of a single variable
E.g., histogram of Age

Bivariate Analysis: Analysis between two variables
E.g., scatterplot of Age vs Fare

Multivariate Analysis: Involves three or more variables
E.g., pairplot showing relationships between Age, Fare, Pclass, and Survived

6. Difference between heatmap and pairplot?

Feature	Heatmap	Pairplot
Purpose	Shows numerical correlation	Visualizes pairwise relationships
Type	Grid-based, color-coded matrix	Grid of plots (scatter/histograms)
Output	One figure, compact	Multiple plots, more visual detail
Use case	Quick check of correlations	Detect patterns, clusters, or outliers
7. How do you summarize your insights?
I summarize insights by:

Writing key observations below each visual

Highlighting trends, correlations, and anomalies

Presenting a concise “Summary of Findings” section at the end:

What features affect the target most?

Which classes or groups behave differently?

Any suggestions for further modeling or cleaning?
